Repeal Anti-Civil Liberty Laws
==============================

We know that there are many issues with the law in the UK, including 
laws that are either overly broad, poorly defined, or used for purposes 
for which they were not intended. There are a number of obvious and 
grave issues that we would like to address as soon as possible.

We will repeal sections 63-66 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order 
Act 1994, These overly broad powers targeted at rave culture are 
targeted solely at electronic and dance music and allow police officers 
to arrest any individual they believe might be on their way to a rave 
within a certain area.

We will repeal section 49 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 
(RIPA). Section 49 of RIPA makes it illegal to not surrender encryption 
keys when a notice is served, allowing a penalty of up to 2 years in 
jail.

Although this was originally a counter-terrorism law, it has been widely 
applied. A further section of the act (54) stops you telling anyone 
about the request for information from the moment you are given the 
notice.

We will repeal sections 142-149 of the Police Reform and Social 
Responsibility Act 2011. In a democratic society it is absurd that there 
are restrictions on protest in and around the seat of government. We 
will remove specific provisions prohibiting protest around Westminster.

We will conduct a review of the Communications Act Section 127.
Clarification of elements of the Communications Act are required to 
ensure that it is brought into line with how people use the Internet and 
modern electronic communications. We should not live in a country where 
people are arrested for making jokes on social media platforms.

Whilst some of these objections have been addressed, the issues they 
present remain. A thorough review of terrorism legislation is again 
needed to ensure that we have the right powers to deal with the threat, 
rather than simply broader powers that leave us all a little bit less 
free.
