Respect Privacy
===============

The privacy of the individual should be respected at all times.
 
We feel that citizens' right to private and confidential communication 
is vital, but at present it is not respected. We will forbid third 
parties from intercepting or monitoring communication traffic (i.e. 
telephone calls, post, Internet traffic, emails), and require specific 
warrants to be issued by a court before the police are allowed to 
monitor communications traffic.
 
We will ensure that the freedom to encrypt data and communications is 
not abridged or limited and that access to the tools that make secure 
communications easier is not restricted.
 
We will significantly strengthen data protection laws, ensuring that 
companies holding personal information give data subjects more 
information about their rights; apply a standardised minimum level of 
security to data, and are clear about their policies on data retention 
and amendment.
 
We will make it easier to apply to a court for compensation where data 
protection laws have been breached, and increase the penalties for any 
breaches of data protection laws. We will allow the courts to apply 
these penalties to both the individuals and companies responsible, 
proportionally to the scale of the breach.
 
We will insist that searches of personal property should only be done 
with reasonable suspicion of a serious criminal offence, and that any 
targeted surveillance requires a warrant. We will also introduce an 
annual independent audit of all cases in which surveillance is used, 
using the results to ensure that any legislation that allows intrusive 
acts is no broader than absolutely required and is used appropriately.

We will introduce laws on the acceptable use of CCTV cameras in both 
public and private spaces. While we recognise that there are arguments 
for the use of CCTV under some circumstances, it should not be 
considered a replacement for police officers on the beat, and it must 
not be used as an excuse for unrestricted spying on the public.

We want clearer guidelines and restrictions on the use of DNA records by
authorities, to ensure samples are only taken voluntarily, or when there
are reasonable grounds to suspect the individual of having committed a 
serious offence. Samples should be promptly destroyed if the individual 
is acquitted or not charged with a criminal offence, and they should 
only be held for the length of time for which there is a reasonable 
suspicion that the suspect has committed a crime. The guidelines should 
ensure that we follow current European or create equivalent British law
on removal of DNA records.
